# ENGF0034-Scenarios-2

## Project Overview

CrediCheck is a community-based website credibility rating system that allows users to vote on the credibility of
websites they visit.
The system consists of a fully asynchronous API server and a browser extension that provides a user interface for
viewing and submitting credibility ratings.

This is a demonstration product delivered with constrained resources, and thus is designed with minimalism in mind.
It is not production ready.

## Structural Overview

### [API Server](api_server/)

- Python ASGI webserver built with FastAPI (HTTP RESTful API) and SQLModel/SQLAlchemy (ORM database access).
- Fully asynchronous I/O (network and database).
- Fully typed code and datamodels.

### [Client Interface](extension/)

- Chromium browser extension with popup UI.
- Vanilla JS API client, generated against OpenAPI schema generated by API Server.
- Fetch API for network requests.

## Technical Features

### Complete Cooperative Concurrency

- ASGI server interface
- Uses SQLAlchemy's async extension for database operations
- Async session management for database transactions
- Non-blocking database queries and updates

### RESTful API

- Well-defined API endpoints following REST principles
- Auto-generating OpenAPI schema & documentation
- Proper HTTP status codes and error handling

### Relational Data Models

- Pydantic models for request/response validation
- SQLModel for ORM with type checking
- Relationship management between models

### Browser Extension

- Simple and intuitive user interface
- Real-time communication with the API server
- Visual representation of credibility scores and community ratings
- Hover tooltips for additional information

### Modular Design

- UI -- API Client -- API Server -- Database
- Client API can be trivially generated in arbitrary languages from the OpenAPI schema.
- Any SQL database works.

## Other Notes

### Client Identification

Account system was too much effort.
It also comes with too many privacy concerns.
So, the only form of client identification is public IP address.

This obviously doesn't work *well* with today's NATs and dynamic IPs, but if you've read the intro, this is a
demonstration product.

### Execution

Extension can be loaded as unpacked, as-is.

Server can be run with [`run.py`](api_server/run.py) or any ASGI server (e.g. nginx Unit).
The importable ASGI object is at [`api_server:api`](api_server/main.py).
